README.md, before:

Ughhh now you are dragging R Markdown into our personal life?
================

Hi sweetie ❤

I (Evan) created this repository with the hope that if I ask very nicely
(and maybe promise an apple pizza in return 🍕), you (Haleigh) will help
me learn how to use a multi-branch workflow with GitHub and R Studio. I
finally feel really comfortable using these tools for myself, and they
have already helped me so much – but I have never collaborated with
anyone else using branches, pull requests, merges, etc.

It is **very** hard to teach an old dog new tricks (just ask Sadie’s
grumpy butt 🐶), but I am going to at least attempt to get Andy to work
with me this way. I really don’t want to go back to e-mailing files back
and forth, or even using Office 365. I want everything to stay linked to
source code.

If I can convince him to learn to write this way, it will save me
endless hours (days) of translating comments and changes….and most
importantly everything is <u>automatically</u> version-controlled, so
there is no need to keep track of file names, numbers, etc. If any
mistakes are made, we can always go back. Hadley Wickham likens using
Git to using ropes when rock climbing – it’s ok to take a little bit of
a risk and make drastic changes to your code or your writing, because
you can’t fall very far.

<img src="images/rock-climbing.jpg" width="50%" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

## Why I need your help

Because the McNitt attention span is about as long as Sadie sniffing my
can of beer (less than 5 seconds), I need to be sure that I have this
method absolutely licked before I try to explain it to him. That’s why I
am asking for your help to learn how to merge branches, deal with pull
requests, and repair merge conflicts *before* I ask him to learn, so
that I’m not doing it on the fly ad can easily answer his questions.

## What else?

All the above is to say that I have a professional motivation for doing
this, but I actually envisage it being a useful tool for the two of us
in the future. The lingo is a little confusing at first, but I can
explain most of it, and you are computer savvy so you’ll probbaly learn
much faster than I did. And given that this workflow is
language-agnostic, meaning you can use Python, SAS, or SQL right from R
Studio, perhaps you too will be bitten by the R Markdown viper and
sucked into its vortex…..

<img src="images/animated_infinite_vortex.gif" width="50%" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

## OK so what will we actually do?

First you would need to [install
Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git/)
(which is a local tool and completely separate from GitHub, though they
play nicely together). Next you will need to create an account on GitHub
[here](https://github.com/join). I can then add you as a collaborator to
this repository.

Once you’re set up, I was thinking we would make an example .Rmd
document and work on it together. It could be our plans for over
winter….maybe coming up with some meal ideas and plans for fun things to
do together. I don’t want to waste any of your time, so if you’re
willing to help me with this, we can use a task we would need to do
anyway. You will also have to learn to Markdown syntax, but that part is
super easy- you can probably learn it in about 10 minutes. There are
lots of good online tutorials; I used [this
one](https://www.markdowntutorial.com/) when I was first starting over
this past summer.

# A bit more about Markdown

Markdown was originally invented for writing HTML code in a way that’s
easy for humans to read. It is a simple, plain-text document, and you
just use regular punctuation marks to indicate how the text should be
formatted. When you compile (“knit”) the document from R Studio, the
**rmarkdown** package calls a command-line tool called
[pandoc](https://pandoc.org/) to translate your Markdown into HTML,
Word, PDF, or many other formats. Probably that’s more than enough
detail for now, you don’t really need to know any more to get started.
If you find it interesting you could read more
[here](https://rmarkdown.rstudio.com/lesson-2.html) or elsewhere on the
web.

No rush as I know you have a lot going on right now. Maybe we can start
when you come to PA.

xoxo ❤ Evan

Commit message:

updated README to note how the source is browsable

README.md, after:

Ughhh now you are dragging R Markdown into our personal life?
================

Hi sweetie ❤

I (Evan) created this repository with the hope that if I ask very nicely
(and maybe promise an apple pizza in return 🍕), you (Haleigh) will help
me learn how to use a multi-branch workflow with GitHub and R Studio. I
finally feel really comfortable using these tools for myself, and they
have already helped me so much – but I have never collaborated with
anyone else using branches, pull requests, merges, etc.

It is **very** hard to teach an old dog new tricks (just ask Sadie’s
grumpy butt 🐶), but I am going to at least attempt to get Andy to work
with me this way. I really don’t want to go back to e-mailing files back
and forth, or even using Office 365. I want everything to stay linked to
source code.

If I can convince him to learn to write this way, it will save me
endless hours (days) of translating comments and changes….and most
importantly everything is <u>automatically</u> version-controlled, so
there is no need to keep track of file names, numbers, etc. If any
mistakes are made, we can always go back. Hadley Wickham likens using
Git to using ropes when rock climbing – it’s ok to take a little bit of
a risk and make drastic changes to your code or your writing, because
you can’t fall very far.

<img src="images/rock-climbing.jpg" width="50%" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

## Why I need your help

Because the McNitt attention span is about as long as Sadie sniffing my
can of beer (less than 5 seconds), I need to be sure that I have this
method absolutely licked before I try to explain it to him. That’s why I
am asking for your help to learn how to merge branches, deal with pull
requests, and repair merge conflicts *before* I ask him to learn, so
that I’m not doing it on the fly ad can easily answer his questions.

## What else?

All the above is to say that I have a professional motivation for doing
this, but I actually envisage it being a useful tool for the two of us
in the future. The lingo is a little confusing at first, but I can
explain most of it, and you are computer savvy so you’ll probbaly learn
much faster than I did. And given that this workflow is
language-agnostic, meaning you can use Python, SAS, or SQL right from R
Studio, perhaps you too will be bitten by the R Markdown viper and
sucked into its vortex…..

<img src="images/animated_infinite_vortex.gif" width="50%" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

## OK so what will we actually do?

First you would need to [install
Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git/)
(which is a local tool and completely separate from GitHub, though they
play nicely together). Next you will need to create an account on GitHub
[here](https://github.com/join). I can then add you as a collaborator to
this repository.

Once you’re set up, I was thinking we would make an example .Rmd
document and work on it together. It could be our plans for over
winter….maybe coming up with some meal ideas and plans for fun things to
do together. I don’t want to waste any of your time, so if you’re
willing to help me with this, we can use a task we would need to do
anyway. You will also have to learn to Markdown syntax, but that part is
super easy- you can probably learn it in about 10 minutes. There are
lots of good online tutorials; I used [this
one](https://www.markdowntutorial.com/) when I was first starting over
this past summer.

# A bit more about Markdown

Markdown was originally invented for writing HTML code in a way that’s
easy for humans to read. It is a simple, plain-text document, and you
just use regular punctuation marks to indicate how the text should be
formatted. When you compile (“knit”) the document from R Studio, the
**rmarkdown** package calls a command-line tool called
[pandoc](https://pandoc.org/) to translate your Markdown into HTML,
Word, PDF, or many other formats. Probably that’s more than enough
detail for now, you don’t really need to know any more to get started.
If you find it interesting you could read more
[here](https://rmarkdown.rstudio.com/lesson-2.html) or elsewhere on the
web.

If you want to see the source code I wrote to create this very README
file, you can browse it by simply clicking on the README.Rmd file on the
repo home page (i.e. just scroll up). I wrote just a few HTML snippets
for the emojis and some extra formatting, but you can see how simple the
Markdown syntax is for bold, italics, hyperlinks, etc.

No rush as I know you have a lot going on right now. Maybe we can start
when you come to PA.

xoxo ❤ Evan
